Scientific inquiry into the wave nature of light began in the 17th and 18th centuries when scientists such as Robert Hooke, Christiaan Huygens, and Leonhard Euler proposed a wave theory of light based on experimental observations. In 1803, English polymath Thomas Young described the famous double-slit experiment, which played a major role in the general acceptance of the wave theory of light.




In 1838, Michael Faraday discovered cathode rays, and these studies were followed by the 1859 statement of the black-body hypothesis by Gustav Kirchhoff. In 1877, Ludwig Boltzmann suggested that the energy states of a physical system can be discrete, aligning with the hypothesis of Max Planck. Planck's hypothesis, proposing that energy is radiated and absorbed in discrete "quanta," matched the observed patterns of black-body radiation.




In 1896, Wilhelm Wien empirically determined a distribution law of black-body radiation called Wien's law, derived from considerations of Maxwell's equations. However, Wien's law was valid only at high frequencies.




The foundations of quantum mechanics were established during the first half of the 20th century by Max Planck, Niels Bohr, Louis de Broglie, Arthur Compton, Albert Einstein, Richard Feynman, Erwin Schrödinger, Max Born, John von Neumann, Wolfgang Pauli, Max von Laue, Freeman Dyson, David Hilbert, Wilhelm Wien, Satyendra Nath Bose, Arnold Sommerfeld, and others. The interpretation of Niels Bohr became widely accepted.




Max Planck corrected the model using Boltzmann's statistical interpretation of thermodynamics, leading to the development of quantum mechanics. After Planck's solution in 1900 to the black-body radiation problem, Einstein offered a quantum-based explanation of the photoelectric effect in 1905. Around 1900-1910, the corpuscular theory of light first came to be widely accepted as scientific fact. However, the photon theory was not widely accepted until about 1 Nobel Prize, with Niels Bohr initially not believing in the photon.




Among the first to study quantum phenomena were Arthur Compton, C. M. Raman, and Pieter Zeeman, each contributing significantly to the field. Robert Andrews Millikan studied the photoelectric effect experimentally, and Albert Einstein developed a theory. Ernest Rutherford experimentally discovered the nuclear model of the atom, and Niels Bohr developed a theory of atomic structure, confirmed by the experiments of Henry Moseley. In 1913, Peter Debye extended Bohr's theory by introducing elliptical orbits, a concept also introduced by Arnold Sommerfeld. This phase is known as old quantum theory.


